---
layout: syllabus
date: 19 January 2021
title: Policies
course_number: 240
---

## Course Policies

### Basic Needs Policy

Your safety and wellbeing is more important than anything going on in class. Please feel free to reach out to me if you need to talk. Any student who faces challenges securing their food or housing or personal safety is urged to contact the Dean of Students for support. Furthermore, please notify me, if you are comfortable in doing so. This will enable me to provide any resources that I can.

Student Life staff are available via phone or email:  
Office of Campus Life and Student Affairs: 973-408-3390; <stuaff@drew.edu>

### Attendance

This course requires participation. *This is your most important responsibility.* What counts in the course is what we do every day; your grade is weighted to reflect that. Come prepared, having done the reading each day, and engage in the class with informed participation. The more you participate in class, and show that you are prepared and engaged, the better. Absences will hurt your grade.

Feel free to speak to me any time outside of class about the material. Email anytime (though I may not get back to you right away)!

## Academic accommodations statement

Your experience in this class is important to me. if you have already established accommodations with the Office of Accessibility Resources (OAR), please provide me a copy your accommodation letter at earliest convenience so we can discuss your needs in this course.

If you have not yet established services through the OAR, but have a temporary health condition or permanent disability that requires accommodations (conditions include but not limited to; mental health, attention-related, learning, vision, hearing, physical or health impacts), you are encouraged to contact OAR. OAR offers resources and coordinates reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities and/or temporary health conditions.

Although a disclosure may take place at any time during the semester, students are encouraged to do so early in the semester, because, in general, accommodations are not implemented retroactively.

Students are eligible for accommodations for online courses.

Office of Accessibility Resources contact information: 

- Director: Dana Giroux
- Location: Brothers College, Room 119B 
- Phone: 973-408-3962
- Email: <dgiroux@drew.edu>, <disabilityserv@drew.edu>

## Academic integrity statement

All students are required to uphold the highest academic standards. Any case of academic dishonesty will be dealt with according to the guidelines and procedures outlined in Drew University's "Standards of Academic Integrity: Guidelines and Procedures," which is located in the academic policies section of the catalog.

In an online environment, academic policies indicate that you are also expected to:

- seek permission if video capturing a course, a faculty member, or a student
- use only allowable resources on exams or other related assignments
- refrain from using professional online tutoring services for exams or similar assignments
- submit only work that is generated by you for evaluation or grading purposes
- University absence policy statement

In addition to the course attendance policy, students should be aware of their rights and responsibilities regarding absences for legitimate reasons as described in the University's Absence Policy: <http://catalog.drew.edu/content.php?catoid=29&navoid=1338#attendance> You may access this policy by selecting Attendance in the Academic Policy section of Drew's Course Catalog.

### P/LP/U

The optional P/LP/U grade mode policy is in place for CLA students through the Spring 2021 semester.
